init documentation for `cancelAnimationFrame()` and `requestAnimationFrame()` of `DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope` interface (#30880)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/dedicatedworkerglobalscope/cancelanimationframe/index.md

---
title: "DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope: cancelAnimationFrame() method"
short-title: cancelAnimationFrame()
slug: Web/API/DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope/cancelAnimationFrame
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope.cancelAnimationFrame
---

{{APIRef}}

The **`cancelAnimationFrame()`** method of the {{domxref("DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope")}} interface cancels an animation frame request previously scheduled through a call to {{domxref("DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope.requestAnimationFrame()", "requestAnimationFrame()")}}.

> Calling `cancelAnimationFrame()` method requires that the current worker need to support this method, which means that the current worker is created by {{domxref("Window", "window")}} or by a dedicated worker that also supports this method.

Author: ```suggestion
Calling `cancelAnimationFrame()` method requires that the current worker need to has an associated owner {{domxref("Window", "window")}}, which means that the current worker must be created by {{domxref("Window", "window")}} or by a dedicated worker that also has an associated owner {{domxref("Window", "window")}}.
```

> Calling `cancelAnimationFrame()` method requires that current worker need to support this method, which means that current worker is created by {{domxref("Window", "window")}} or the creator of current worker (the worker must be a dedicated worker) also supports this method.

Author: ```suggestion
Calling `cancelAnimationFrame()` method requires that the current worker need to support this method, which means that the current worker is created by {{domxref("Window", "window")}} or by a dedicated worker that also supports this method.
```

---
title: "DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope: cancelAnimationFrame() method"
short-title: cancelAnimationFrame()
slug: Web/API/DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope/cancelAnimationFrame
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope.cancelAnimationFrame
---

{{APIRef}}

The **`cancelAnimationFrame()`** method of the {{domxref("DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope")}} interface cancels an animation frame request previously scheduled through a call to {{domxref("DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope.requestAnimationFrame()", "requestAnimationFrame()")}}.

Calling `cancelAnimationFrame()` method in worker requires that the method needs to be supported in current worker, which means that current worker need to be created by window or the creator of the worker also support the method.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
cancelAnimationFrame(handle)
```

### Parameters

- `handle`

>   - : The ID value returned by the call to {{domxref("DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope.requestAnimationFrame()", "requestAnimationFrame()")}} that requested the callback.

Author: yes, the handle must be created in the same dedicated worker

### Return value

None ({{jsxref("undefined")}}).

### Exceptions

- `NotSupportedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}

>   - : Thrown if the method is not supported in current worker.

Author: and this expection is not required to documented in window. and window. , as in window scope, the exception will never throw

## Examples

First, in the document, transfer the control of a {{HTMLElement("canvas")}} element in document using the {{domxref("HTMLCanvasElement.transferControlToOffscreen()")}} method and send a message of "start" to the worker:

```js
const offscreenCanvas = document
  .querySelector("canvas")
  .transferControlToOffscreen();

worker.postMessage(
  {
    type: "start",
    canvas: offscreenCanvas,
  },
  [offscreenCanvas],
);
```

Then, in the worker, the following code will start the animation of drawing a rectangle moving from left to right when receiving a message of "start", and stop the animation when receiving a message of "stop":

```js
let ctx,
  pos = 0;

function draw(dt) {
  ctx.clearRect(0, 0, 100, 100);
  ctx.fillRect(pos, 0, 10, 10);
  pos += 10 * dt;
  self.requestAnimationFrame(draw);
}

self.addEventListener("message", (e) => {
  if (e.data.type === "start") {
    const transferredCanvas = e.data.canvas;
    ctx = transferredCanvas.getContext("2d");
    self.requestAnimationFrame(draw);
  }
  if (e.data.type === "stop") {
    self.cancelAnimationFrame(handle);
  }
});
```

> Finally, when necessary, we could send a message of "stop" to the worker to stop the animation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, if needed, the main thread can send a `"stop"`message to the worker to stop the animation:
```

```js
worker.postMessage({
  type: "stop",
});
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{domxref("DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope.requestAnimationFrame()")}}

> - {{domxref("Window.requestAnimationFrame()")}}

Reviewer: This one is not needed.
```suggestion
```
